# Networks-Project 4

This is our fourth project for our Networks & Distributed Systems course. 

For the assignment, we will write code that will transfer a file reliably between two nodes (a sender and a receiver).

Some project specifications include: 
The sender must accept data from STDIN, sending data until EOF is reached
The sender and receiver must work together to transmit the data reliably
The receiver must print out the received data to STDOUT in order and without errors
The sender and receiver must print out specified debugging messages to STDERR
Our sender and receiver must gracefully exit
Our code must be able to transfer a file with any number of packets dropped, duplicated, and delayed, and under a variety of different available bandwidths and link latencies
Our sending program must be named 3700send and your receiving program must be named 3700recv
Datagrams generated by your programs must each contain less than or equal to 1500 bytes of data. Any datagrams sent with more data that that will be dropped.

Approach:
Our approach to this project was to first understand what was provided in the starter code, which we saw that sending and receiving through sockets was provided. The stop-and-wait protocol was a low level design that functions at a barebone level. We first implemented our foundational semantics such as congestion window and RTT delays, and from there the task was to figure out how to filter the packets if given different orders, as well as increase our program's speed and handle a series of packet loss and corruption detection. Dealing with these functions was fairly straightforward since these protocols are very well documented. However, making our transmission efficient and succincy was a little more difficult, and required a lot of tweaking for updating CWND and RTT.

Challenges:
- Understading the given starter code
- Figuring out the modularity of the code and understanding how to kickstart the first couple of level tests, from there the first three levels were smooth
- Problems started arising with levels four and five, where it was a little difficult figuring out how to configure the handling of packet loss, corruption detection, and drops. 
- Figuring out how to implement RTT and CWND updating was a little intricate in the sense of tweaking certain aspects of our program so that the packet transmissions would be smoother
- At this point, our main functionality was made, but it was a huge issue trying to figure out how to find parts in our code that were either unneccessary or suboptimal, and creating solutions for those parts. It is for that reason that the final level performance tests were our main issue and was difficult to circumvent certain behaviours in our program that was slowing the packet transmission down.


Testing Strategy:
We tested our code through running the code and printing out the values of what was outputted from the server using './run configs/1-1-basic.conf' and other lines according to the file we wanted to test. We printed out the values of the packet information and data to understand what was going on. We ensured consistent results through running the code multiple times, and also through submitting it to the Gradescope autograder. We made some other tests that tested whole functionality of parts of our program, incrementally adding elements to pinpoint problem areas. So, we used some functional testing as well as some integration testing, aside from general debugging/printing for output testing.
